.\" perphup.8
.\" wcm, 2009.12.01 - 2011.02.01
.\" ===
.TH perphup 8 "February 2011" "perp-2.01" "persistent process supervision"
.SH NAME
perphup \- trigger a
.BR perpd (8)
rescan
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B perphup [\-hV] [-q] [
.I basedir
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B perphup
is used to trigger
.BR perpd (8)
to rescan its directory of service definitions.
.PP
.B perphup
looks for an instance of
.BR perpd (8)
running on the argument given by
.IR basedir .
Otherwise,
.B perphup
looks for a value in the environmental variable PERP_BASE.
If neither of these are defined or are empty,
.B perphup
uses a compiled-in default, normally
.IR /etc/perp .
.PP
When
.B perphup
finds the 
.BR perpd (8)
process, it sends it a SIGHUP signal.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Help.
Print a brief usage message to stderr and exit.
.TP
.B \-q
Quiet.
Normally after successfully finding and triggering a
.BR perpd (8)
process,
.B perphup
prints a brief message to stderr.
The
.B \-q
option may be used to suppress this message.
.TP
.B \-V
Version.
Print the version number to stderr and exit.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B perphup
exits with the following values:
.TP
0
Success.
An active
.BR perpd (8)
process was found and triggered with SIGHUP.
.TP
100
Usage error.
For unknown options or other command-line errors.
Prints a brief diagnostic message to stderr on exit.
.TP
111
System error.
Unexpected failures during system calls, privilege and/or resource problems,
or configuration problems in the
.BR perpd (8)
directory.
Prints a brief diagnostic message to stderr on exit.
.SH AUTHOR
Wayne Marshall, http://b0llix.net/perp/
.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.BR perp_intro (8),
.BR perpboot (8),
.BR perpctl (8),
.BR perpd (8),
.BR perpetrate (5),
.BR perpls (8),
.BR perpok (8),
.BR perpstat (8),
.BR sissylog (8),
.BR tinylog (8)
.\" EOF perphup.8
