.\" perp_intro.8
.\" wcm, 2009.12.04 - 2011.01.31
.\" ===
.TH perp_intro 8 "March 2011" "perp-2.04" "persistent process supervision"
.SH NAME
perp_intro \- introduction to persistent process supervision
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I /etc/perp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS Purpose
The
.B perp
distribution is a set of daemons and utilities to
start, monitor, log, and control a collection of persistent processes.
This document provides an overview of the system.
.SS Terms
.TP
``persistent process''
Any long-running program,
normally intended to start at system boot
and continue running until system shutdown.
Also known and often described as a ``service''.
A persistent process will normally provide some essential system service
on-demand.
Programs that service email, domain name queries, and http requests
are examples of services that are normally run as persistent processes.
.TP
``service definition''
A service definition is
the set of
.BR perpetrate (5)
runscripts and associated files that tell the
.BR perpd (8)
program how to start, run, and optionally log a service.
The service definition for some service ``foo''
will be installed in the service definition directory
.IR /etc/perp/foo .
.TP
``service activation''
A service definition may be installed and configured as summarized above,
but does not become operative until it is specifically activated.
An activated service is then recognized by the
.BR perpd (8)
scanner.
Service activation is controlled by setting the
.BR sticky (7)
bit on the service definition directory.
Setting the sticky bit activates the service,
unsetting the sticky bit deactivates the service.
The sticky bit is manipulated on the command line with the
.BR chmod (1)
utility,
or with the
.B A
and
.B X
commands to the
.BR perpctl (8)
utility.
.TP
``service supervisor''
Some program, itself a persistent process,
that starts and monitors another program to ensure its persistency.
.SS Daemon Programs
.TP
.BR perpd (8)
service directory scanner, supervisor and controller,
operating on
.I /etc/perp
.TP
.BR perpboot (8)
recommended utility for starting
.BR perpd (8)
.SS Control Programs
.TP
.BR perp-setup (8)
one-time post-installation configurator for initializing a
.B perp
system
.TP
.BR perpctl (8)
administrative utility for runtime control of
.BR perpd (8)
.TP
.BR perphup (8)
rescan trigger utility for
.BR perpd (8)
.SS Query Programs
.TP
.BR perpls (8)
list persistent processes
.TP
.BR perpstat (8)
report status of persistent processes
.TP
.BR perpok (8)
check persistent process
.SS Logging Programs
.TP
.BR sissylog (8)
log stdin to
.BR syslog (3)
.TP
.BR tinylog (8)
log stdin to directory of rotated logfiles
.SH FILES
The service directory
.I /etc/perp
will have the following structure:
.TP
.I /etc/perp
base directory for service installation, monitored by
.BR perpd (8)
.TP
.I /etc/perp/.boot
configuration directory used by
.BR perpboot (8)
to start
.BR perpd (8)
.TP
.IR /etc/perp/.control " [--> " /var/run/perp " ]"
runtime control directory for the
.I /etc/perp
installation directory;
normally a symlink to
.I /var/run/perp
.TP
.I /etc/perp/foo
.BR perpetrate (5)
definition directory for some service ``foo'' under supervision of
.BR perpd (8)
.TP
.I /etc/perp/foo/rc.log
.BR perpetrate (5)
optional runscript for starting/resetting a logger for service ``foo''
.TP
.I /etc/perp/foo/rc.main
.BR perpetrate (5)
required runscript for starting/resetting the service ``foo''
.SH AUTHOR
Wayne Marshall, http://b0llix.net/perp/
.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.BR perp-setup (8),
.BR perpboot (8),
.BR perpctl (8),
.BR perpd (8),
.BR perpetrate (5),
.BR perphup (8),
.BR perpls (8),
.BR perpok (8),
.BR perpstat (8),
.BR sissylog (8),
.BR tinylog (8)
.\" EOF perp_intro.8
