.\" runuid.8
.\" wcm, 2009.12.11 - 2009.12.15
.\" ===
.TH runuid 8 "March 2011" "runtools-2.03" "runtools"
.SH NAME
runuid \- run a program as a different user
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B runuid [\-hV]
.I account program
.B [
.I args ...
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B runuid
runs
.I program
with the uid and gid set according to the user and group ID of
.IR account .
.PP
If
.I program
does not contain a ``/'' slash character,
.B runuid
will perform a shell-like search for the executable using the
.B PATH
variable in the current environment.
.PP
.B runuid
itself needs root privilege to run.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Help.
Print a brief usage message to stderr and exit.
.TP
.B \-V
Version.
Print the version number to stderr and exit.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B runuid
exits with one of the following values:
.TP
0
.I program
was invoked and completed successfully.
In this case,
the exit code is returned by the
.IR program ,
rather than by
.B runuid
itself.
.TP
100
.B runuid
failed because of a usage error,
such as an invalid command\-line option or argument.
In this case,
.B runuid
prints a brief error message and usage help to stderr on exit.
.TP
111
.B runuid
failed due to some system or resource error.
In this case,
.B runuid
prints a brief diagnostic message to stderr on exit.
.TP
1\-127
.I program
was invoked and failed with its own non-zero exit status.
.SH AUTHOR
Wayne Marshall, http://b0llix.net/perp/
.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.BR runtools_intro (8),
.BR runargs (8),
.BR runargv0 (8),
.BR rundetach (8),
.BR rundeux (8),
.BR runenv (8),
.BR runfile (8),
.BR runlimit (8),
.BR runlock (8),
.BR runpause (8),
.BR runsession (8),
.BR runtool (8),
.BR runtrap (8)
.\" EOF
